What is your gender, age, and race?
Female, 19, Caucasian
What is your major?
Biology & Spanish
Are you on or off campus?
On campus
Do you have any experience participating in research studies?
No

How helpful do you think an app for monitoring mental health would be to college students?
Since you track it daily you would be able to notice patterns, so it would be helpful.

Do you know people that might use this if it became available?
Probably not.

What’s your opinion on Clemson’s mental health resources? Do they do enough or too little?
Not great. I don’t know how many people reach out to Clemson. Those who have problems might use personal doctors. But for people who do reach out, probably not enough.

How important do you think that mental health is overall?
Pretty darn important, maybe even more. If someone is physically hurt, they wouldn’t put further danger on anyone else, and mental health is not as noticeable.

Do you think an app could provide the necessary attention or help that is needed for people struggling with mental health?
Depends how bad their situation is. An app would be better used for pointing towards help or something that offers resources. Mental health is a human issue, so you need other people involved, not just computers.

Do you think an app should have limits on how invasive or personal it is with one of its users with regards to mental health? Are there any topics that are off limits? Which ones?
Depends on what the person chooses (what information they’re willing to divulge), how regular their cell phone use is, and what their cell phone habits are. Maybe if there’s a setting for sensitive mode, or if they have the ability to toggle certain personal info that they’re willing to divulge.  Things like maybe criminal activity (such as assault) and suicide needs to be dealt with by professionals.

Should the app be able to make decisions without the user knowing (for example, alert a professional if they show signs of depression or more serious symptoms)?
Maybe if the person designates someone. Someone can choose an emergency contact, and that person can decide.

Do you think an app like this that helps college students handle mental health could be widely used?
If it became mainstream enough. However, apps are more associated with fun, so they might not be great for personal issues.

What’s the difference to you between someone being happy or sad (mood) and their mental health being out of whack (them being depressed)?
For mental health, there’s nothing specific that provokes their feelings. Depression is more complex, prolonged emotion.

Do you think students struggling with mental health would be brave enough to use this app if it was available to them?
Probably. It’s more impersonal, and the hard part is talking to an actual person.

Would you ever use an app if you started struggling with mental health (and were too afraid to seek professional help)?
Sure. I have no idea, but probably.

How passionate are you about mental health and providing resources to people who need help? (scale of 1 to 5)
3. I care about helping my friends, but you can’t fix everyone. I’m not necessarily an advocate.

Do you think society doesn’t place enough value on mental health?
Yes. (They do not)
