What is your gender, age, and race?
Male, 21, Caucasian
What is your major?
Geology
Are you on or off campus?
Off campus
Do you have any experience participating in research studies? 
Yes, I have tested VR for geology.


How helpful do you think an app for monitoring mental health would be to college students?
Depends who gets to look at it. A personal relationship would be more important than interfacing with an app. There’s a chance people might not be honest. But overall, slightly helpful.

Do you know people that might use this if it became available?
No.

What’s your opinion on Clemson’s mental health resources? Do they do enough or too little?
I don’t have much experience with their resources. They might be pretty good. I remember talking with someone previously. He said that people at Redfern were responsive and made sure that stuff was confidential. I think it’s going pretty good with what they’re currently doing.

How important do you think that mental health is overall?
Almost the most important thing ever. If you don’t have good mental health, then you will want to die, which distracts you from focusing on life and achieving your life goals.

Do you think an app could provide the necessary attention or help that is needed for people struggling with mental health?
It’s an ok start. It’s not a substitution for counseling. It would be good for logging their feelings, like a more-advanced journal.

Do you think an app should have limits on how invasive or personal it is with one of its users with regards to mental health? Are there any topics that are off limits? Which ones?
Yes, definitely. Self-harm and suicide might be off limits.

Should the app be able to make decisions without the user knowing (for example, alert a professional if they show signs of depression or more serious symptoms)?
Yes, assuming a waiver or something similar is signed.

Do you think an app like this that helps college students handle mental health could be widely used?
Yes, if it works correctly.

What’s the difference to you between someone being happy or sad (mood) and their mental health being out of whack (them being depressed)?
Happiness/sadness is on more of a day-to-day basis and can change, but mental health is more long-term. Happiness/sadness can be easily changed, but mental health is difficult to change and relatively constant.

Do you think students struggling with mental health would be brave enough to use this app if it was available to them?
Some of them, but not all of them. Around 35% of users. Some people might not be aware of their mental health problems.

Would you ever use an app if you started struggling with mental health (and were too afraid to seek professional help)?
Yes, if it got pretty bad.

How passionate are you about mental health and providing resources to people who need help? (scale of 1 to 5)
2.

Do you think society doesn’t place enough value on mental health?
In some cases yes (they place a proper amount of value), but maybe too much sometimes. They say sometimes “there are ways to help yourself,” which isn’t always a solution. In some areas they place too much importance, but in some areas, not enough. Like sometimes it’s treated as if it’s incurable. Sometimes they don’t put enough emphasis on it, and they just say “get over it.”
